[MUSIC PLAYING]
SURMA: When doing a
responsive web design,
it is natural not to know
the width of an element.
After all, you're supposed to
respond to the different sizes
of your users' screens.
However, sometimes it is
desirable, if not required,
that the element maintains
a certain aspect ratio.
CSS does not yet
have a way to give
an element an inherent aspect
ratio, so this is a problem.
But we can work around
this with a little trick.
When you set padding top of an
element to a percentage value,
that percentage is relative to--
and now, brace yourself--
the parents' width.
The wider the parent,
the more padding top.
As counter-intuitive
as this might seem,
it comes in incredibly handy
for solving our aspect ratio
problem.
To make our element
keep an aspect ratio,
we set padding top to the
inverse of the aspect ratio
in percents.
You can do the math
yourself, or make
use of CSS calc expressions.
Our element will now
maintain its aspect ratio.
Huzzah!
The astute viewer,
however, will have
noticed that despite
all the math,
a padding is still a
padding and will push down
the content of our element.
To counteract that, we have
to add a little wrapper
element that can negate
the padding effect.
And we're done.
Nobody likes adding
wrappers, but sometimes there
is no other way.
You win some, you lose some.
See you next time.
We've all been here before.
There's the Chrome.
There's last video.
You should click it.
Go.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I'm not going to
stop until you click.
[MUSIC PLAYING]